All right guys in this video we're gonna look at aligning elements.
We're gonna look at aligning text and we're going to look at auto margin.
So let's create a new file here called 0 7.
And I'm just going to call this float underscore a line dot h t and now and throw in our tags here had
body tags and we'll save float in a line
style.
OK.
And all I want here is three divs with the class of box.
But I want them to have separate I.D. so that we can target them separately as well.
Now with Emmitt I don't think I showed you this if we want to add an I.D. and a class we can do like
I.D. Box 1 class box OK we can do that and then I'm just gonna put an H three in here and I'm just going
to say heading doesn't really matter.
And then we'll do large 20.
OK and we're going to copy this down two more times and just change the I.D. to two and then three.
OK.
So we'll save that and let's open this with live server
Now first thing I want to show you is how to center your your content or your layout because in in just
about all cases every Web site you go to.
It's in the center.
It's not over to the to the left like this.
Maybe in like the the 90s or early 2000s it was but now you see your stuff is gonna be in the middle.
So to do that is pretty easy.
We just need to have a container class or I.D. and or container element I should say.
And then we need to add a width to it and set the margin to auto.
OK.
If we set the margin to auto it's going to add the same amount of margin on both sides pushing it into
the middle.
So let me show you what I mean.
I'm going to wrap this in a class called container.
OK.
You'll see the class name container often container or wrap or wrapper and then we're gonna grab everything
here and put it inside the container.
And we just fix this up a little bit.
All right.
So up here in our CSX let's do container and let's set a width of.
Now it's up to you how wide you want your layout to be.
I'm going to do 960 which is kind of kind of narrow and then actually we'll just do that for now and
if we go back to our ops if we go back to our content and I open up our chrome tools and take a look
you'll see that looks we want to go to the container you'll see that the blue it ends at nine hundred
and sixty pixels.
That's 960 wide.
Now to move it to the middle is very simple.
All we have to do is add in margin auto if I save that we go back now you'll see it's in the middle.
OK.
And the orange part in the sides is the margin in.
Notice it's the same.
It's even on both sides.
That's what happens if you do margin auto.
Now if you want to move it down a little bit if you want margin on the top and bottom you could do something
like this.
You could say 30 pixels on top and bottom.
Auto on the left and right.
And now if I hover over it you'll see that there's 30 on the top and bottom.
OK.
Now there's there's an issue with using just width in this case.
So let me show you that.
It has to do with responsive design.
You want to do all you can to make your site look decent on mobile devices and we're gonna get more
into this later.
But if I go down like this like if we were to view this on a mobile device you can't even read the text.
You have this scroll bar which is just horrible.
We want that all the text to display here so to fix that is very simple.
All we have to do is go from with to using Macs with.
So if I save that we go back now all the text is there.
Regardless of the screen size.
And then once I get to 960 it's going to it's going to stop.
That's the boundary coaster you set a max width of 960.
OK.
So you should always use max width on your containers.
So next thing I'm going to do is just kind of style these boxes a little bit and the body I'm just going
to throw in a body style of Let's do font du font family aerial Helvetica sans serif and then I'm just
going to add a line height of one point four REM or M
and let's see.
Let's let's style the box class a little bit so for box we'll do background light gray and border one
pixel solid dark gray padding 20 pixels.
And let's do margin bottom 10 15 pixels.
All right.
Let's take a look at that.
So all of our boxes now have 20 pixels padding they have the border the the background and some margin
to push the.
The other ones down.
So before we get into floating I just want to look at the text align property and that's what text line
is used for is just text it's not used to align boxes and stuff.
So let's just target the paragraph in here.
So I'm gonna say box and then we want to grab the paragraphs within the box.
Let's put a comment here saying this is for the text align property.
So by default it's aligned to the left.
If I do that it's just going to stay how it is.
But let's say we wanted that aligned to the right to its text align right.
And if we look at that.
Now the text is aligned to the right.
If we want it to the center we could do center and it's just overwriting.
I can leave these whatever the last one is that's going to overwrite the other ones.
So now center case that was center in that text align center is used often.
And I could put text align center on the div if I wanted this and if I wanted everything within it to
be centered as well.
And then we could also do justify
so justify we'll just make the edges all even you can't really tell here because it's because there's
not much tax.
But if I make the smaller
see how it's all even on the edge so that's justify I'm sure you guys have used justify and like Microsoft
Word or something.
All right.
So now I want to talk about floating and I just want to explain something real quick.
So I'm going to just do a search for age.
I'll layout.
Example go to images.
Let's see.
Let's look at this old bootstrap layout.
So over here we have a sidebar and then we have a main area.
OK so these are aligned horizontally and then inside the main area we have some boxes that are also
aligned horizontally.
Now we can do this with floats and that's what we're what we're working on right now.
But that's not the the way that you should do it now.
OK these days because now we have flex blocks that's built into CSX.
We also have CSX grid and to use those we use the display property we can say display flex or display
grid and then we have some other properties that are associated with it.
And this is the the the way that you should do this stuff these days a couple of years ago we would
have to use floats and floats are much more of a pain in the neck because you have to clear them.
It's more of a pain dealing with responsive design dealing with you know mobile devices and stuff like
that.
So it's not ideal anymore but with that said I still want you guys to know how to use floats.
In fact the project that we're going to do next at the hotel Web site we are going to use floats because
I don't want to get into flax so the grid just yet.
OK.
So just keep that in mind just keep in mind that we're learning floats but it's not something that you're
going to use use that much or that you should use that much.
So let's say that we want to take Box 2 and 3 we want Box 2 to float to the left.
Come to about here.
So we want box 3 to be kind of a side bar more narrow box.
So let's do that.
Let's jump in and let's target Box 2 which has an idea of Box 2 and let's say float to the left.
Now if we do just that it doesn't do much you'll see that it's kind of it's kind of put up right on
top of box 3 but you want to add a width when you're floating something so let's say width and I could
use pixels but it gets kind of messy.
You're probably going to want to use percentages.
Now the container that the boxes are in is nine hundred and sixty pixels.
Max with so what we can do is let's use a percentage of 70 percent and then we'll take box 3 and let's
float that to the right and let's say we want the width to be 30 percent.
Okay.
Because obviously 70 and 30 is 100 percent of its container.
So let's see what that looks like we'll save it.
We'll go back and we have an issue it's not it's not fitting.
Now the reason for that is because we didn't set the board or box property.
Remember in the last video I showed you that when you add padding which both of these have it adds to
the width.
OK.
So this isn't another pain in the pain in the neck for for floating.
It adds to the width.
So we have to actually add a box sizing property on the asterisk.
OK well we don't have to put it on the asterisk but I always do just to just because I want all elements
I want this applied to everything.
So let's say box sizing we want to set the border box.
So once I do that it takes away that it doesn't add the padding to the actual widths.
So now it fits but they're right on top of each other so what I would do in this situation is probably
just lessen the percentage.
So instead of seventy four a box to let's change it to 68 so it doesn't go all the way over and there
we go.
All right.
Now this isn't going to look right.
If we make this smaller but we're not going to get into that yet we're not going to get into responsiveness
yet.
Though the Web site the hotel Web site we build we will be using media queries and stuff to make it
responsive.
So I mean this is how we would do it before flexing and CSX grid came out.
Now I just want to show you guys that if we add another div below this and we'll just call this box
for.
OK.
So number two two and three offloaded and then box four is under it.
So let's see what that looks like.
Doesn't look right.
So it's basically put behind it.
It doesn't push it down under the floated elements because the floated elements have to be cleared.
This is another pain in the neck when it comes to floating.
So what we would do are one thing we could do is add a class a utility class and put it up here.
I'll call it CLIA for clear and we'll set the clear property to both because we want to clear the left
and right floats that we just created and then we would have to put it right under where the float is
which is under 2 and 3 OK.
So div class clear.
Now if we go back box four is pushed down.
OK so remember if you use floating you're gonna have to clear them.
In most cases.
Now another area that floating is used is in navigation bars a lot of time you'll see that the horizontal
navigation is so in the next video we're gonna look at styling links and buttons and we're also going
to look at creating a basic navigation bar where we float the the list items.
All right.
So I'll see you in the next video.